In the previous video we copied the code from a project to add a snack bar to that.
In this video.
We're going to look at snack bars in more data now and see how we can make a little bit easier to use
snack bars where introduced with material design and are intended as an alternative to the text messages
you know snack bars and types of matches can be used to notify the user of something in an unobtrusive
way.
The music has to see the message but the messages don't interrupt the flow.
And that's how to lock a dialogue that has to be dismissed before you can continue.
In the case of text messages and snack bars they appear on the screen but shouldn't get in the way and
thus can be ignored.
Snack bars are a lot more versatile and text messages.
One problem actually with a text message is that they may be easy to miss.
There are only two options for how long a time it can stay on the screen length of school short and
length out of school long.
Once the specified period has expired then the text message will automatically disappear from the screen.
Now in the case of snack bars we've got another value we can use length to a school indef..
So what I'm going to do is change the code in a floating action buttons on click method to have a look
at what this length and Osco indefinite does.
I'm down here now.
The card here are now line 62 to get a chance to length.
I was going to print it.
Now I can bring up the documentation for Alington def. to take a look at that.
And you say it is people with control are all talking and have a check.
I can click and select the source code and we can say the comments above they are talking about what
it is.
It still shows the snack bar and surprisingly indefinitely.
Basically the snack bar will be displayed from the time that it shall want to eat if it's dismissed
or another snack bar is shown which will then replace it.
So in this case that's very good.
It's going to allow us to leave that message on the screen until the user dismisses it or there's another
snack bar message showing.
And you probably worked this out by now but tonight is that the comments when we go into the source
carrier to appear above the card they refer to.
So make sure you do read the right comment.
Otherwise things can get confusing.
You're looking down here for example and wanting to apply telling what is going definite which is not
the case.
I'm going to close down that snack bar Java code.
By the way we could have got a similar result by just returning the documentation and getting the information
up that way which we've seen in previous videos as well.
So let's run the app and see what happens now look up this different setting length was going different
set
all right so I'm going to click on to No.
I hate this time this time around and I want to open.
I'll click on the FEBE notice now that the snecked message doesn't disappear automatically.
But if you do want to dismiss a snack bar to swap right.
And an advantage on the screen I can see me doing that now.
So that's pretty cool but I can get even better.
So instead of just showing the user a message I think it'd be nice if we could provide them with a way
to grant the access at the same time rather than just telling them that they need to grant that access.
The good news here is that snack bars can contain a clickable link as well as displaying the message.
They can also behave like a button and allow us to provide some extra functionality.
So to do that came back to our code.
What we need to do is add some code here in the listener and we can see with cowpie got that set to
now.
So I'm just going to delete that and anti-left to Kelly Price which I will automatically press enter
and I'm going to talk in some code now so this would be the code to be executed.
If the snecked bar button itself is tapped so I'm going to just put a text message in his or toast dot
text parentheses.
I take what context come up and I just want to permit you just snack bar action clicked.
Come on it's probably toast.
That was caught short and parentheses and dots show.
Now I'm not suggesting that you should show a text message from a snack Bahi a bunny doing that here
so we can see the action being cold will let you do something more useful with the action in a moment.
Let's actually run the site just to see what it does.
Make sure that it works.
On Quicken to know I click on the finding or some button and that stays there because we are using the
link from the score indef..
Now if I click on the selection button you can say we got a text message showing up on the screen.
It's likely that the action was invoked after we clicked it.
No actually had a reason for showing that and the reason was that when we create a text message we have
to provide a context to the text function.
It could say that there were 965 the unclick method gets passed a reference to the view that was clicked
but because we're using colon rather than Java and implementing the on click method with a lambda colon
allows us to submit the parameter declaration.
So instead of explicitly declaring the parameter Koplin does it for us and uses the symbol it can say
I've taught it to context.
So basically that's why we can refer to it to context as an argument to make text.
Now the other thing that may not be obvious is that a view has a context and that's the other thing
I wanted to demonstrate by using a text message here.
Sometimes you might struggle to get a context and easily in an adept.
For example you know if you find you need one in a click list.
You can often use the context of the argument just like we're doing here.
And again just to confirm.
Run it again.
You can deny this time you can see here there's an action action text is appearing on the right hand
side.
You know that text comes from the text specified in the seduction method and you can sleep with a cat
outburst Mrs. showing on the screen the one common error that the people who make you forget to call
the doc show at the end autostart my text and that applies when displaying Sneck and ticed messages
the way it wants Judaea does warn you if you do that.
But if you don't see the type of message.
Make sure you've got to show at the end.
In parentheses as I've got the code for displaying snack bars and TOSed messages look very similar.
You make a snack bar or ticed that called a shared method.
Now there's really not a great deal more to say about snack bars.
We can check the documentation by clicking on snack bar which I can do either here.
You can say it says that snakebites provide like white feedback about an operation a show a brief message
at the bottom of the screen on mobile and lower left allowed devices snack bars appear above all other
elements on screen and only one can be displayed at a on and off so they automatically disappear after
a torment or after user interaction or on screen particularly after interactions that someone a new
service or activity and there you saw that can also be swapped for screen.
Now it's also possible to be code back when a snack bar is shown or dismissed if you need to check that
all right.
So got the ability to respond when a user clicks the action link.
What we can do is present the user with the dialogue to grant access.
And that's pretty easy.
We just call that request permission method again.
But what if permanently denied access.
So in that case calling request permissions won't pop up the dialog again.
What we can do in that case is take them into the settings for our map so that they can grant the access
that we need.
Now unfortunately Google doesn't allow a way to go all the way into the permissions but we can get them
as far as how apt settings.
So let's see how that's going to work.
Before we wrote the code to do it we're going to switch over and show you a finished version of this
app in my IP 27 emulator to show that we can see what Sabun what it's actually going to do.
I so I'm running the final version as you can see on screen now.
And we get the normal dialog to grant access and outside we've already seen in our app so I can't deny
access
unable to accept the filing action button.
We get a snack bar and there's now an option here to grant access.
So if that action in noticed that the pop up came up again and I can click on allow just to confirm
that that does work.
And we can now see a context where we run it.
So that's a definite improvement rather than just a message.
The user can grant access when they attempt to use the functionality that you to explain in the documentation
that you'll be reading.
Once when we finish this app users sometimes refuse access because I don't understand why it's being
requested.
When they come to use a feature that requires the access they're much more likely to understand why
they're being asked for it and so therefore more likely to grant it.
But what happens if they refuse access and tick the box not to be bothered again.
So what I've got to do now is going to settings for this app this county that
when you go into a content provider into permissions and click and turn this off.
So I'm going to provide access to all who provide that permission so that when we run out again now
we should find it ask for permission again.
Start asking for permission again because we revoked access so this time I'm going to click on the don't
ask again I'm going to click on tonight.
Now that I've done that I'm going to click on fighting action button so you get to snack pass before
this time.
When I click here on Grand Texas non-listed it goes right into the settings for a content provider example
app.
And unfortunately as I mentioned this is as far as we can get the user only has to tap on the permissions
here to get into and grant access so that much change in the future as Google gets feedback from users.
But at the moment that's the best we can do.
So with that said now that would enable the permission again doesn't work.
I'll get back now.
Keep time back.
We're back in app and you can see we're accessing the contacts again so you can see that that clearly
worked.
So that's how our app ultimately is going to work.
But obviously at this point in time we haven't implemented that card.
So that stopped the video here and in the next video will actually go ahead and implement that functionality.
So see you in the next video.